Kasus Fraud Analytics

we can use SNA to detect fraud. With humans being 
social creature,human behavior is said to be affected by the people 
that you are surrounded by. The word homophily has been coined to 
represent the effect their social network has on a person. Extending 
this concept, a homophilic network is a group of people who are 
likely to be associated with each other due to some common factor; 
for example, having the same origin or hobbies, being part of the 
same gang or the same university, or some combination of other 
factors.

If we want to analyze fraud in a homophilic network, we can take 
advantage of the relationships between the person under 
investigation and other people in the network, whose risk of 
involvement in fraud has already been carefully calculated. Flagging 
a person due to their company is sometimes also called guilt by 
association.

In an effort to understand the process, let's first look at a simple 
case. For that, let's use a network with nine vertices and eight 
edges. In this network, four of the vertices are known fraud cases 
and are classified as fraud (F). Five of the remaining people have no 
fraudrelated history and are classified as non-fraud (NF).

Note that we have already conducted detailed analysis to 
classify each node as a graph or non-graph. Let's assume that we 
add another vertex, named q, to the network, as shown in the 
following figure. We have no prior information about this person 
and whether this person is involved in fraud or not. We want to 
classify this person as NF or F based on their links to the existing 
members of the social network:
• Using a simple method that does not use centrality metrics and 
additional information about the type of fraud
• Using a watchtower methodology, which is an advanced 
technique that uses the centrality metrics of the existing nodes, 
as well as additional information about the type of fraud

The simple technique of fraud analytics is based on the
assumption that in a network, the behaviour of a person is
affected by the people they are connected to. In a network, 
two vertices are more likely to have similar behaviour if they are 
associated with each other. Based on this assumption, we devise a 
simple technique. If we want to find the probability that a certain
node, a, belongs to F, the probability is represented by P(F/q) and
is calculated as follows:
...............................
Let's apply this to the preceding figure, where Neighborhoodn represents
the neighborhood of vertex n and w(n, nj) represents the weight of the
connection between n and nj. Also, degreeq is the degree of node q. 
Then, the probability is calculated as follows:
.....................

Based on this analysis, the likelihood of this person being involved in fra
ud is 67%. We need to set 
a threshold. If the threshold is 30%, then this person is above the thresho
ld value and we can safely flag them as F.

Metodologi pemantauan fraud 
analytics

The previous, simple fraud analytics technique has the following two 
limitations:
• It does not evaluate the importance of each vertex in the social 
network. A connection to a hub that is involved in fraud may have 
different implications than a relationship with a remote, isolated 
person.
• When labeling someone as a known case of fraud in an existing 
network, we do not consider the severity of the crime.
The watchtower fraud analytics methodology addresses these two 
limitations. First, let's look at a couple of concepts.

Menentukan nilai negatif
If a person is known to be 
involved in fraud, we say that 
there is a negative outcome 
associated with this individual. 
Not every negative outcome is 
of the same severity or 
seriousness. A person known to 
be impersonating another 
person will have a more 
serious type of negative 
outcome associated with them, 
compared to someone who is 
just trying to use an expired 
$20 gift card, in an innovative 
way to make it valid.

Menentukan dan memodelkan derajat kecurigaan

• The degree of suspicion (DOS) quantifies our level of suspicion that a person 
may be involved in fraud. A DOS value of 0 means that this is a low-risk person 
and a DOS value of 9 means that this is a high-risk person.
• Analysis of historical data shows that professional fraudsters have important
positions in their social networks. To incorporate this, first we calculate all of
the four centrality metrics of each vertex in our network. We then take the
average of these vertices. This translates to the importance of that particular
person in the network.
• If a person associated with a vertex is involved in fraud, we illustrate this
negative outcome by scoring the person using the pre-determined values
shown in the preceding table. This is done so that the severity of the crime is
reflected in the value of each individual DOS.
• Finally, we multiply the average of the centrality metrics and the negative
outcome score to get the value of the DOS. We normalize the DOS by dividing
it by the maximum value of the DOS in the network.

